So yeah, now we have the Getting Started
here, which is the folder that we created.
If I click this, you can see that
now we have that second scenario,
now there's a folder ID and a URL,
so we handle that scenario.
And we actually got
the folder that's here.
And then here's the documents that we
created, that one document Start Here,
that's on sign up.
So if I click that Then what happened?
There we go.
So now if I click that I'm here.
And now I'm actually in the editor
where I can write some stuff, right?
So I can do some things here.
And yeah, this is an editor.
It's a blog base editor,
you can do stuff like this.
You hit tab, you can add a code block if
you want to, all different types of stuff.
And then it just auto saves.
So if you're interested in that code,
it's in, where did I write this code?.
This is in components editor.
It's not a lot of code,
it's like 120 lines of code for an editor.
So that's the editor that we get.
And, yeah, sometimes it'll do
this because of hot reloading.
So we handled that,
everything's looking good.
Now we need to actually do the mutations
of making these buttons work here.
So if I want to be able to click
here to create a new document and
click here to create a new folder
I want those to actually work.
Now we can't actually do mutations
on the server side, right?
We can't write code on this.
To query the database, we wrote database
queries on the server side props,
to get information from the database.
But to actually mutate the database, we're
gonna have to do that on the client's
side because it's responding to a click,
it's responding to an event.
So that has to happen
on the client's side.
So, what I was telling you before,
it's not recommended for
you to use your own API
inside your next.js app.
That's mostly for querying data.
For mutating data, you have to.
[LAUGH] yeah, you pretty much have to
use your API, if you want to do that,
if you're responding to events.
So that's what we're going to do.
The next one is client side mutations.
So like I said before,
we talked about using the database
queries in the server side props.
So for mutations,
we need to do them client's side.
So first, we need some API routes to
actually hit, we don't have any API
routes, we actually have to make them so
we can actually use them.
So that's what we're going to do.
And this will be the first
API routes that we've made,
we have that one with the auth, but the
next auth handler just handles it for us.
So we're going to do one here,
or actually a couple here,
that we just make ourselves.
So we need to be able to
handle a put on a editor.
So if you try to go into editor
right now and type things in,
you'll see it'll say auto saving, but
it doesn't actually get saved, right?
Because we haven't hooked it up,
it's not doing anything.
So if I refresh this page,
it's just going to go back to what it was,
cuz there's no mutation here.
So we need to do that.
The other things we need to do is be able
to click here and then make a new folder.
Right now it opens up a modal and
I don't really think it does anything, or
if it does, it definitely breaks.
And then here we need to be able
to create a new document as well.
So we got those three
mutations we need to make.
So that's what we'll do.
In order to do that, we're gonna be
using a library called next-connect.
It's very much like express.
If you've ever heard of express then
you definitely know what connect is.
Express is based off connect, and actually
used to use connect as a dependency and
now it doesn't use connect as a dependency
anymore, but it's still the same API.
So it's pretty much the same thing.
We're going to do that to create our
routes because it actually helps us create
routes a lot simpler.
If we didn't use next connect,
we basically have to create our own
router inside of every function.
We have to look at the request object,
determine if it's a put, post, get or
whatever and route off that and
we gotta do a lot of low level stuff.
Whereas next-connect just gives
us that API that we're used to,
just being able to do this.
So, that's what we're gonna do.
So we're gonna make one for
the document to be able to put a document,
that's gonna be an update.
And then we're gonna do one for
the doc index,
which is basically being able to post,
which is create a document.
So these are two different,
this one requires an ID, right,
cuz we were updating a document so
we need an ID.
This one is saying just
create a new document,
we don't need an ID just make a new one.
And then down here with folders, we're
gonna say we want to be able to post and
create a folder.
So let's do that.
So what we'll do here is
head over to our API.
And then we're gonna make some new folders
here, so I'm gonna say New Folder.
I'm gonna put, what did I call that,
just doc, I guess.
So we'll start with doc.
We'll say doc, and then we're going to do
the one for, let's do the create first.
So index.ts for the create here.
And I'm gonna import NC from next-connect.
I'm gonna import our middleware from,
where's that middleware,
I know it's on here somewhere,
there we go, middleware/all.
So I'll just call that all, or
I'll just call that middleware.
Like that.
And we'll see what else we need.
Wait, I need the database stuff, I think.
Yeah, I need those helpers.
So let's get the helpers
from Where are they at?
I think they're in db.
Where's db?
There's db, okay.
And then we'll get the doc helper, cool.
So then we'll say const_handler.
And that's just gonna be I wanna
say next connect like that.
And then what you can do is you
can pass in some options here.
The one that we want is
gonna be an onError.
So I have a error handler and I want to
say that one's in the middleware as well.
So we'll do this from
middleware/error.
I was gonna call it onError, like that.
So this error handler is just, if we get
a look at it, it's nothing really special.
It basically just logs the error and
sends back a 500.
I mean, this is where you would probably
do your reporting to like Century or
whatever error reporting
system that you have.
You would just put that here instead,
and then you get the actual error.
This is a great way to capture some error.
So basically just wraps your
handler in a try catch and
it passes the error here and then now
you can handle it however you see fit.
What I like to do is I like to create
custom error classes that have their own
status codes on them and
stuff, and their own messages.
And then when you need to throw an error,
you just throw that new
custom class that you made.
And then somewhere like this in function,
you could check to see,
is this an instance of unauthorized error?
Is this an instance of payment late error?
Whatever it is, and you can decide on what
you want to do to figure out what message
you want to show and stuff like that.
So that's just my flow that
I've been doing for a while.
So take it or leave it.
Yeah, so we've got our handler, and
then we want to do is set up some routes.
So I'll say handler dot, what is this?
This is for the index of doc.
So we're going to be posting an index
obviously, .post, like that.
And we're going to get a function.
Okay, so then async, this, we're gonna get
a request, we're gonna get a response.
And then if we're posting something,
actually, I think I have some TypeScript.
I got like a custom
TypeScript thing I have here,
I think it's called request actually,
let me see.
It's that one, there we go.
So we got this request object here.
It's just some custom one that I made,
we're gonna look at it.
It basically just extends
the next API request and
just adds a db client and then the user.
So we get some nice type checking there,
that's all it does.
So what I can do here,
is if I want to create a post,
I could say cool, not a problem.
This middleware already connects to
the database force, so we're good.
If this function is running,
we'll already connect to the database.
And we're already authenticated as well,
so we're good.
That middleware handles all of it,
we can go look at it.
It basically uses the db and
then it uses auth.
If I go look at the db middleware,
it connects to the database and
passes it to the request object, okay?
And then if I go look at auth,
what it does is it uses this jwt package
from next-auth, and
it just gets the token with the secret,
which basically decodes the token,
and I attach it to req.user.
And then I call it next, and that's it.
So, and then I put both of
them together inside of all,
right here, use(db), use(auth).
And that's how I'm able
to get both of them.
So by the time this function runs,
I'm authenticated and the db is connected.
So I should be safe to say,
newDoc = await req.db.
Actually, I don't want to use req.db,
I'm gonna use doc.createDoc, and
then pass in req.db, like that.
And then a new doc that I want to create
is going to be whatever is on the body.
So I'll say the new doc
is gonna be req.body and
then created by req.user.id.
Cool, so now, we got a new doc,
and now we're gonna say, res.send.
I always like to wrap mine in a data
property like that, just to be consistent.
So there we go.
So now, we got that.
Now all I have to do is just
export defaults, not deflate.
[LAUGH] What is that?
Export default handler.
And I guess I need to actually use that
middleware that I was saying that wes
should use, [LAUGH]
handle.use(middleware), there we go.
So what else do we have to do?
So we got, I did the Create,
which was this one, so
I just skipped and did this one.
So let's go back and do this one,
which actually updates one.
So we already have a doc.update here.
And we're just gonna put
on a query string, the ID.
So basically the route for that is gonna
be slash API slash Doc slash the Doc ID.
So I'll say id.ts, like that.
I could copy most of this.
I could put this here.
And instead of post,
this is gonna be a put.
And instead of creating,
we're gonna updateOne.
And the update that we wanna do is
gonna be whatever is on the body.
Is that what it wants?
Let's see, updateOne takes a,
it takes a string, obviously.
So that'll be req.query.id,
cuz that's the name of it right there,
so Id.
I think Tyson is gonna freak out unless I
cast it to string, so I'm gonna do that.
And then any updates,
which will just be req.body.
So we got the new doc, and
this is technically like a updatedDoc.
So I'm gonna do that.
There we go.
So pretty much the same thing,
we're just updating using our helpers.
That's why we made these helpers,
cuz otherwise we'd be doing all that stuff
over and over again, which is gross.
So we're just gonna do that.
Have the req.body.
We're good here.
And then last thing we want to do is
the same thing for a folder, boom.
So we got folder, and then we're gonna,
I think we're creating a folder.
So we're going to say index.
And pretty much the same thing,
I'm going to paste that again.
Except for this case,
we're gonna get folder.
And this is going to be
folder.createFolder, like that.
And createFolder takes in just a db,
the created by, and then a name.
So the name, I'm guessing, is going
to be our req.body.name, like that.
And we'll update this to be newFolder.
Boom, there we go.
So now we're creating a new folder.
So we got our routes,
it's using our little handlers here.
The next thing we gotta do is just hook
this up to the client side to mutate.
Most of the work on
the client is already done,
so it's not too bad and there's
already some examples of how it works.